Prompting
The model is trained on Danbooru-style tags, natural language captions, and combinations of tags and captions.

Use lowercase for tags, and spaces instead of underscores. Score tags are the only tags that use underscores.
Recommended positive prefix: "masterpiece, best quality, score_7, safe, "
Recommended negative: "worst quality, low quality, score_1, score_2, score_3, artist name"
When using a tag that is different between Danbooru and Gelbooru, prefer the Gelbooru version.
Tag order
[quality/meta/year/safety tags] [1girl/1boy/1other etc] [character] [series] [artist] [general tags]

Within each tag section, the tags can be in arbitrary order.

Quality tags
Human score based: masterpiece, best quality, good quality, normal quality, low quality, worst quality

PonyV7 aesthetic model based: score_9, score_8, ..., score_1

You can use either the human score quality tags, the aesthetic model tags, both together, or neither. All combinations work.

Time period tags
Specific year: year 2025, year 2024, ...

Period: newest, recent, mid, early, old

Meta tags
highres, absurdres, anime screenshot, jpeg artifacts, official art, etc

Safety tags
safe, sensitive, nsfw, explicit

Artist tags
Prefix artist with @. E.g. "@big chungus". You must put @ in front of the artist. The effect will be very weak if you don't.

Full tag example
year 2025, newest, normal quality, score_5, highres, safe, 1girl, oomuro sakurako, yuru yuri, @nnn yryr, smile, brown hair, hat, solo, fur-trimmed gloves, open mouth, long hair, gift box, fang, skirt, red gloves, blunt bangs, gloves, one eye closed, shirt, brown eyes, santa costume, red hat, skin fang, twitter username, white background, holding bag, fur trim, simple background, brown skirt, bag, gift bag, looking at viewer, santa hat, ;d, red shirt, box, gift, fur-trimmed headwear, holding, red capelet, holding box, capelet

Tag dropout
The model was trained with random tag dropout. You don't need to include every single relevant tag for the image.

Dataset tags
To improve style and content diversity, the model was additionally trained on two non-anime datasets: LAION-POP (specifically the ye-pop version) and DeviantArt. Both were filtered to exclude photos. Because these datasets are qualitatively different from anime datasets, captions from them have been labeled with a "dataset tag". This occurs at the very beginning of a prompt followed by a newline. Optionally, the second line can contain either the image alt-text (ye-pop) or the title of the work (DeviantArt). Examples:

ye-pop
For Sale: Others by Arun Prem
Abstract, oil painting of three faceless, blue-skinned figures. Left: white, draped figure; center: yellow-shirted, dark-haired figure; right: red-veiled, dark-haired figure carrying another. Bold, textured colors, minimalist style.

deviantart
Flame
Digital painting of a fiery dragon with glowing yellow eyes, black horns, and a long, sinuous tail, perched on a glowing, molten rock formation. The background is a gradient of dark purple to orange.

Natural language prompting tips
Follow standard English capitalization rules for character and series names.
If using pure natural langauge, more descriptive is better. Aim for at least 2 sentences. Extremely short prompts can give unexpected results.
You can mix tags and natural language in arbitrary order.
You can put quality / artist tags at the beginning of a natural language prompt.
"masterpiece, best quality, @big chungus. An anime girl with medium-length blonde hair is..."
Name a character, then describe their basic appearance.
"Digital artwork of Fern from Sousou no Frieren, with long purple hair and purple eyes, wearing a black coat over a white dress with puffy sleeves..."
This is extra important when prompting for multiple characters. If you just list off character names with no description of appearance, the model can get confused.
